### 3D Voxel Map to 2D Occupancy Map Conversion Using Free Space Representation

## Installation

1. Navigate to src folder in workspace `cd ~/catkin_ws/src`
2. Clone the GitHub  to ros workspace: `https://github.com/LTU-RAI/3D-Voxel-Map-to-2D-Occupancy-Map-Conversion-Using-Free-Space-Representation`
3. `cd ..`
4. Build project: `catkin build mapconversion`

## ROS Launch Files

`map_conversion.launch`: Example launch file for launching map conversion node

`path_conversion.launch`: Example launch file for launching map path conversion node

## ROS Nodes

### `map_conversion_node`

A node that converts the input 3D voxel map to a 2D occupancy map and a height map with the height of the floor and ceiling. 

#### Ros Parameters 

`map_frame`: Name of frame map.

`map_position_z`: Z position used for the outputted 2D maps. 

`resolution`: Resolution of voxel map and output 2D maps. **Must be set for node to function**.

`minimum_z`: Minimum height of free space the robot can traverse. 

`max_slope_ugv`: Maximum slope ground robot can climb, used to detect and represent obstacles in the 2D occupancy map

#### Subscribed Topics

`ufomap`: Input voxel map.

#### Published Topics

`mapUGV`: Map for ground robot, includes obstacles detected using `max_slope_ugv`.

`mapUAV`: Map for aerial robot, containing free space and bounding walls. 

`heightMap`: 2D map containing the height of the floor and ceiling of the environment. 

`visualization_floor_map`: Rviz cost map, for showing a heat map of the floor height in the `heightMap`. **This is only for visualization.** 

`visualization_ceiling_map`: Rviz cost map, for showing a heat map of the ceiling height in the `heightMap`. **This is only for visualization.** 

`visualization_slope_map`: Rviz cost map, for showing a heat map of the slope of the map in the range 0 to 2*`max_slope_ugv`. **This is only for visualization.** 



### `path_converter_node`

A node that converts inputed path generated using a 2D planer to a 3D path using `heightMap` generated by `map_conversion_node`.

#### Ros Parameters 

`use_collision_sphere`: Add collision sphere around robot, use `true` for aerial robots and `false` for ground robot. 

`collision_radius`: Radius for collision sphere, only used if `use_collision_sphere` is  `true`. 

`path_offset`: Desired height above ground for the robot.

`path_smothing_length`: The amount of step before and after robot used for path smoothing.  

#### Subscribed Topics

`heightMap`: Hight map used for 2D to 3D conversion generated by `map_conversion_node`.

`pathIn`: 2D path that will be converted into 3D.

#### Published Topics

`pathOut`: 3D path converted from 2D using the `heightMap`.